The specific purpose of the Ramapur project is to bring all media facilities under one roof.
As a project begins, we always want things to move fast, but sometimes the reality is that it doesn't happen as fast as we would like it to.
It's been several years of some pretty dynamic planning and we've seen a lot of twists and turns and changes along the way.
We've had a number of challenges on the Ramapur project.
In the state of New York, there's only a certain season where you can take trees down.
We're only allowed to remove trees between November and the end of March.
The town board approved the special permit for us to be able to cut the trees.
However, when we went to exercise that permit, we realised that another agency still had to give their permission for us to be able to use it, which we didn't get.
Originally, we had planned about 12 weeks to do all of this work.
And that 12 weeks included using mechanised equipment.
If that wasn't accomplished, we'd be waiting an entire year to be able to cut those trees.
Well, the windows started closing from 12 weeks to 8 weeks, all the way down to 6 weeks.
And then somehow something in the permitting language opened our eyes to a new possibility that allowed us to take the trees down in a different way.
We got permission to cut the trees, but we had to cut the trees all by hand.
And in four weeks, we used an outside contractor to take down all the trees that we needed.
Two weeks early of the end of the tree cutting season.
Every single day, there's still much work to be done to get us the needed permits.
The design is continuing. The estimating for the project is continuing. That hasn't stopped. That hasn't slowed up one bit.
Because of some of the delays that we experienced, there wasn't need to reassign some of our brothers and sisters within the organization.
We had these willing volunteers, they were skilled, they were trained, they were willing to do whatever was needed.
But we just didn't have the work for them at the time.
We were able to communicate with different departments in the branch, at headquarters.
And it just so happened that many of these departments had been praying for additional help.
The brothers had a meeting with us and they said, we know you're not 100% busy, like you want to be.
We'll be giving a number of you new assignments. Most of you, you'll go out for a while while we get our permits and come back.
They said that I would be going into CDE, and I didn't even know what that was.
Computer department engineering, and I thought, that's a way above me, I'm a construction girl.
But actually, I've loved it, I've learned so much, and the team that I've worked with, I've gotten close to them, and it's been a wonderful change.
It's really shown us that Jehovah is going to take care of us.
For us to be at Ramapo was one of the most amazing privileges we've ever had.
But we're still working for Jehovah and right in the center of his organization.
These brothers and sisters are real men and women of faith, helping to advance Kingdom Interest in all these other areas.
Obviously, when we hit some of these points where maybe we were waiting on approvals, the work did not stop.
The time has allowed us to work with the Bethel Departments, to work with the governing body committees, to work with our outside expert audio video design teams.
And so, because of that, the buildings themselves have changed.
It was looked into how flexible spaces be created, and also how could some of these spaces be shared between different departments to make the best use of the property that we have.
The art department will be in the same building with the other aspects of media, the audio part and the video part, so that when we need to collaborate, it'll be much easier to work together, so that we can make the very best possible product.
It's a state-of-the-art audio video and our production facility.
The process of designing that and getting it to stay ahead of not only the ever changing technologies that we see in the industry, but also the needs for the organization.
It's a dynamic process.
The facility has been designed and will be constructed in such a way that if modifications need to be made later to keep up with technology, we won't have to deconstruct the building in order to implement those changes.
We've developed beautiful studios that will be functional not only now, but also for future projects.
One exciting feature of the Media Center will be the use of video walls for virtual production.
In fact, we've already begun filming with this new technology here at Patterson.
With these video walls, we can create digitally backgrounds that can be used to give the appearance that we are shooting it in a foreign location.
The governing body made it very clear that their focus was the spirituality of those who involved in our productions.
If the friends have to be off-site for long periods of time filming, it can really disrupt their spiritual routine.
Virtual Reduction will allow us to reduce the need to travel or to even work hours that could interfere with spiritual activities.
There's some circumstances that arise that can sometimes limit our ability to travel to another location, but with the use of the video wall, we won't be stopped.
Video production will continue in the studio.
Now we'll be able to custom make some backgrounds that actually look like Bible lands.